term-flashy

A Rust terminal emulator built on GTK4 and VTE (the same terminal
engine used by GNOME Terminal, Tilix, and Terminator), with a sidebar
tab bar and per-tab visual notifications.

FEATURES

Multiple tabs with a sidebar
  Each tab runs its own independent shell process. The sidebar is
  resizable (drag the divider) and remembers its width between runs.
  Double-click a tab's name to rename it.

Background image (optional)
  Show an image behind the terminal text, like a desktop wallpaper,
  with a configurable dim level so text stays readable. (Real
  window transparency, seeing the actual desktop through the
  terminal, was tried and dropped — see NOTES below.)

Per-tab notifications
  The core feature of this project. When something happens in a tab
  that isn't focused, that tab's row is highlighted (amber background)
  in the sidebar until you click it. There are two kinds of trigger:

  Built-in triggers (term-flashy detects these on its own, no
  cooperation needed from whatever is running in the tab):
    - Terminal bell (\a)
    - A command finishing with a non-zero exit code
    - A command that takes too long to finish (configurable,
      10 seconds by default)

  App-driven trigger
    Any program running inside a tab can flag that tab itself by
    calling the included `term-flashy-notify` command. This is meant
    for long-running command-line tools that need to signal
    completion or that they need attention. The motivating use case
    is Claude Code: configuring a `Stop`/`Notification` hook in
    `~/.claude/settings.json` that calls `term-flashy-notify` makes
    the tab it's running in flash on its own when it finishes
    responding or needs a permission decision, even while you're
    working in a different tab.

Configurable
  `~/.config/term-flashy/config.toml` (or the in-app Settings window):
  font family, font size, background image and dim level, and each
  built-in trigger can be turned on or off individually. Settings
  changes apply immediately to already-open tabs, no restart needed.

USAGE

  term-flashy            Start the app
  term-flashy --help     Show this text
  term-flashy-notify     Flag the current tab (ring the bell) from
                          inside a shell or a hook command

NOTES

  Real window transparency (the terminal blending with whatever is
  behind the app window on the desktop) was attempted and removed:
  GTK4/VTE on this project's target setup composited alpha against a
  flat color instead of the actual desktop, so it never really worked.
  The background-image feature above achieves a similar visual effect
  without that limitation, since it composites within the app's own
  window rather than relying on desktop-level transparency.
